---
layout: post
title: My Gear Fabrication Syndrome
category: blog
tags:
- DIY
- sim-racing
- synths
---

If you are reading these lines, you may be familiar with the concept of Gear
Acquisition Syndrome (GAS). A person's insatiable urge to buy equipment for
their art or hobby, distracting them from actually practicing said art or
hobby.

It's driven in part by the belief that new gear will improve one's art or
performance, e.g. I don't sound like Jimi Hendrix because I don't have the same
effects pedal he used. Or the instant gratification of acquiring and
discovering new shiny equipment, in contrast to the stressing and frustrating
creation process.

Because of my background and education, the "guilt" of spending money on
frivolous equipment will, most of the time, allow me to overcome my Gear
Acquisition Syndrome. But I developed another mechanism: Gear Fabrication
Syndrome (GFS).

# Let me tell you the most recent example:

A few months ago, I was introduced to the wonderful world of [sim
racing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sim_racing). As teenagers my brothers and
I used to play car racing video games, but I didn't know how advanced the field
is today. So I started to look into it, watched videos on YouTube, dug up the
old force feedback wheel controller from our parent's attic, bought a game,
etc.

Sim racing tutorials will often explain how braking is the most important skill
to drive fast. And to break with consistency and precision you need a so-called
"load cell pedal". Unlike the cheap pedal I am using, a load cell pedal
measures the pressure you are putting on the pedal and not the distance your
foot moves. That's way closer to how real car brakes operate (pression in a
hydraulic system).

For sure, the reason I am not going as fast as the other drivers online is
because of my cheap brake pedal! Enter the Gear Acquisition Syndrome!

Entry level load cell pedals are not extremely expensive, I can afford it. But
they are not cheap either, am I wasting money here? Trying to reconcile my urge
to get new gear and my fear of wasting money, I looked for an escape. Quick
online search for DIY sim racing pedals reveals a lot of [different
designs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=C7pNnQlq8ro). For sure, I
can make one! Enter the Gear Fabrication Syndrome.

Cost saving is not always the motivation, one can try to make better gear than
what is available off the shelf, or just more adapted to personal taste. That's
why I could also tell you about all the guitars,
[amplifiers](https://fireverb.wordpress.com/2015/03/14/the-fireverb/) and
[effects](https://fireverb.wordpress.com/2015/03/14/leslievibratone-cabinet/) I
made instead of practicing the instrument. Or my 6 years and going [pocket
synthesizer project](/blog/2022/11/21/welcome.html).


{:refdef: style="text-align: center;"}
![](/assets/fireverb_internals.jpg){:width="60%" }
{: refdef}

# Is GFS better than GAS?

That's hard to tell. The cost effectiveness is often hard to reach, in
particular if you factor in the cost of tools. Not to mention a failed DIY
project will lead you to end up buying the off the shelf gear, making things
way worse in the end.

Software developers are familiar with this credo:

```
We do these things not because they are easy, but because we thought they were
going to be easy.
```

It's also time consuming, and the time spent on making gear is of course not
available for practicing art/hobby.

On the other hand GFS can become a deeply rewarding part of your journey,
allowing you to shape and personalize your tools in a way that GAS never can.
You can learn a lot from it, and in the end, designing and making can become
your main art/hobby.

# GFS Ambassadors

There are many individuals online that seem to exhibit signs of Gear
Fabrication Syndrome. I picked two.

Let's start with Adam Savage. Watching the Tested YouTube channel, it's clear
that Adam loves gear and tools. You can tell by this [8 minute video on hex
keys](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7v8p0Bpbihw) for instance. He's even
obsessed as some [video title will tell
you](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SNc8y7d7Tic). To me it's pretty clear that
Adam shows signs for GAS. But what about GFS? Well Tested YouTube channel is
also [full of
videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLJtitKU0CAej22ZWBqrimPkn0Bbo6ci-r)
where Adam makes custom equipment for his shop, or movie prop replicas, or any
other kind of gear. Things that he could either buy or have someone make for
him.

{:refdef: style="text-align: center;"}
[![](/assets/adam_savage_tested_portable_soldering_station_rebuild_yt_thumbnail.jpg){:width="60%" }](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MdjGxn97lgI)
{: refdef}

The second one is Sam Battle, known online as [Look Mum No
Computer](https://www.lookmumnocomputer.com/). Sam is a musician, performer,
videographer, inventor, and director of his own museum. I highly recommend
having a look at his [YouTube
channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/LOOKMUMNOCOMPUTER/videos).

Among many other things, Sam designed and built a big custom synthesizer called
Kosmo. Kosmo is tailored for live performance, rugged enough to sustain
transportation in a tour van, with big knobs and jacks so that Sam can use it
while singing and jumping around. Kosmo has become more than a tool, it's a
musician on stage with Sam. You would never get that with off the shelf synths.

{:refdef: style="text-align: center;"}
[![](/assets/LMNC_kosmo.jpeg){:width="60%" }](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R1mliD9m1LM&t=164s)
{: refdef}

# How good are my DIY pedals in the end?

Here's what my DIY pedals look like so far:

{:refdef: style="text-align: center;"}
![](/assets/DIY_sim_racing_pedals_oct2023.jpg){:width="60%" }
{: refdef}

You are probably wondering if they allow me to drive faster in racing
simulators. Well, two months after the beginning of the project, they are still
not usable ^^ So this might be the topic for another post...

