---
layout: post
title: PGB-1 Firmware Update (1.3.0)
category: blog
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
tags:
- pgb-1
- firmware-update
---

Hello everyone,

We are happy to announce a third firmware update for the PGB-1, with new HiHat
and sampler engines, improvements to the LFOs, and new menus to control mixing
and live FX. Beyond the new firmware, we also have a brand new [User
Manual](https://weenoisemakers.com/pgb-1-user-manual/) and a beta [Sample
Manager](https://weenoisemakers.com/pgb-1-sample-manager/), more details below.

And last but not least, the 2nd batch of PGB-1 is now available in our
[shop](https://shop.weenoisemakers.com/).

<!--more-->

[As explained for the first update](/blog/2025/08/24/pgb1-firmware-1-1-0.html),
use a good quality USB cable for the update, and do not interrupt the process.

# How to update

The new firmware is available from this link:

{:refdef: class="grey-box" style="text-align: center; padding-top: 1rem; padding-bottom: 1rem; margin-left: 5rem; margin-right: 5rem;"}
[PGB-1 Firmware v1.3.0](https://github.com/wee-noise-makers/WNM-PGB1-firmware/releases/download/v1.3.0/WNM-PGB1-firmware-1.3.0-release-20260329-1753.uf2)
{: refdef}

And we have a video showing how to install it:

<div style="text-align:center; padding-top:3em">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8Zc03KL3Huk?si=rCNJlBTpFfnFg3Vw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

# Let's have a look at the new firmware content

<div style="text-align:center; padding-top:3em">
<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kux53sU-uFQ?si=mhsrbpFC1B89ymVg"
title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay;
clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

One of the first notable additions is the availability of a complete [user
manual online](https://weenoisemakers.com/pgb-1-user-manual/). Unlike the
original quick start guide, this new documentation goes much further, covering
everything from beginner's first steps to more advanced topics like LFO ,
effects processing, mixing, and arpeggiators.

Alongside this, there's a new [web-based sample
manager](https://weenoisemakers.com/pgb-1-sample-manager/), currently in beta.
This tool connects directly to the PGB1 through a browser (such as Chrome)
using WebUSB. It allows users to manage samples much more easily: you can
preview sounds, edit their start and end points, apply effects like reverb or
delay, and upload them back to the device. You can also drag and drop your own
audio files to create new samples. In addition, it supports backing up and
sharing full projects, which makes collaboration and organization far more
convenient than before.

On the firmware side, the update significantly expands the number of available
high-hat engines. In addition to the existing 707 and 909 sample based engines,
several new models have been added, including 808, 505, LM2, CR78, MRK2, and
acoustic hi-hats. All of them are available in low-pass, band-pass and
high-pass variants, giving more tonal flexibility.

The sampler engines have also been extended. New glide engines allow smooth
pitch transitions between notes, with both fast and slow variants depending on
how dramatic you want the effect to be. Additionally, new pitch-shifting
engines make it possible to shift samples up or down by one or two octaves.
These pair particularly well with LFO features.

One of the biggest improvements in this update is the overhaul of the LFO
system. It now includes clear visual feedback, showing exactly how modulation
affects parameters in real time. There are new operating modes (additive,
subtractive, and bipolar) as well as a new random shape . The controls have
also been reorganized to make features like sync and looping more intuitive.
Altogether, the LFO is now more powerful and easier to understand.

The mixer section has also been redesigned. A new project mixer view lets you
monitor and adjust levels across different stages, such as tracks, effects, and
the final output, with visual indicators to warn you about clipping. There are
also dedicated pages to control the volume and stereo panning of all tracks at
once, and to assign or review which effects are applied to each track. This
makes balancing a full track much more straightforward.

Another major addition is the new Live FX settings menu, which gives you deeper
control over performance effects. For example, the autofill feature (previously
limited to kick, snare, and hihat tracks) can now be applied to any track, and
its behavior can be customized with adjustable probability settings. Filter
effects can now be fine-tuned with control over cutoff, resonance, and sweep
behavior, all with visual feedback. The stutter effects have also been
expanded, allowing you to create your own rhythmic patterns step by step and
adjust how quickly the sound fades in and out.

Finally, a second production batch is now available. This new batch introduces
a couple of small hardware changes (such as black screws and the addition of a
battery door) but the device remains functionally identical to the original
version. Importantly, the firmware is fully compatible across both batches, so
all units continue to receive the same updates and features.

Overall, version 1.3.0 enhances sound design, improves live performance tools,
and makes the workflow smoother and more intuitive.

We hope we will enjoy this update. Please join the [Discord
server](https://discord.gg/FCraj7z3CX) to share your experience with this new
firmware.
